1. (1 point) A tuple variable in SQL stands for
**A) a record**
~B) a field~
~C) a table~
~D) none of the above~

2. (1 point) (check all that apply) Find the employee in each department who makes the highest salary in their departments
~A) select ename from emp where sal in (select max(sal) from emp group by deptno);~\
**B) select a.ename from emp a where a.sal = (select max(b.sal) from emp b where b.deptno = a.deptno);**\
~C) select ename, max(sal) from emp group by depnto;~\
**D) select ename from emp where (deptno, sal) in (select deptno, max(sal) from emp group by deptno);**\
~E) select ename from (select ename from emp order by sal desc) where rownum < 2;~

3. (1 point) To find a value in one table, but not in the other table, which operation do you use?
~A) Interset~\
~B) Union~\
**C) Minus**\
~D) Join~

4. (1 point) What does the following SQL query do?
with t(n) as
(
select seq.nextval as n from dual
union all
select n + 1 as n from t
where n < 1000
)
select n from t;
**A) get a list of integers from the number generated by Sequence seq to 1000**\
~B) get a list of integers from 1 to 1000~\
~C) create a new table called t with n as column name~\
~D) nothing, the query is invalid~

5. (1 point) (select all that apply) In a hierarchical recursive query, with clause is used to build a subquery. What is that subquery different from subqueries used in other clauses such as where or from clause?
~A) Subquery in with clause uses union while others do not~\
**B) subquery in with clause uses union all while others do not**\
**C) Subquery in with clause can be self called by the subquery while others cannot**\
~D) There is no difference~

6. (1 point) Which of the following is not a data model for NoSQL databases?
~A) key-value pairs~\
**B) relational model**\
~C) network model~\
~D) graphic model~\
~E) nested document-based model~

7. (1 point) (select all that apply) What are the features of NoSQL databases?
**A) schema-less**\
~B) collections are linked by references~\
**C) optimized for for a data model that aims at high performance**\
~D) store documents instead of records~\
**E) balanced approach to availability and consistency**

8. (1 point) What is CAP Theorem?
~A) No distributed systems can be scalable as well as consistent~\
~B) MongoDB cannot be scalable~\
**C) A distributed system can meet only two of the following: consistency, availability, and errors tolerance**\
~D) A relational database cannot meet the requirements of big data~

9. (1 point) What is isolation property for a distributed system?
~A) All transactions must be done sequentially one by one~\
**B) All transactions should lead to the same result whether they are performed concurrently or sequentially**\
~C) All transactions can be performed concurrently~\
~D) All transactions must all succeed or fail as a whole~

10. (1 point) What is the best characterization of JSON?
**A) data format for storing and communication object data by JavaScript**\
~B) JavaScript programming language~\
~C) data model for MongoDB~\
~D) key-value store~
